<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-US" id="public-apis">

  <title>SnapLogic Public APIs</title>

  <conbody>

    <section>
      <title>Overview</title>

      <p>SnapLogic Public APIs provide basic functionality that you can use to programmatically manage your integration.</p>

      <ul>
        <li>The timeout for these APIs is set to 15 minutes.
          This timeout setting can be changed on the client-side network, but it remains 15 minutes in the SnapLogic Platform.</li>
        <li>The total API limit is affected only by triggered Pipeline executions; it is not affected by the use of SnapLogic Public APIs.</li>
      </ul>

      <note type="note">You can also create your own custom APIs from your Pipelines using the API Management tool.</note>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Authentication</title>

      <p>API requests are authenticated using basic authentication over HTTPS.
        Additional authentication methods are under consideration for future updates.
      </p>

      <p>You can run these APIs regardless of the privileges or user roles assigned to you in your Org.
        Access to the information returned by these APIs is based on asset permissions,
        which are set in <xref scope="external" format="html" href="https://docs-snaplogic.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SD/pages/1439061">SnapLogic Manager</xref>.
      </p>

      <p>If your account is locked or your password is expired, you cannot invoke SnapLogic Public APIs.</p>

    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Best Practices</title>

      <ul>
        <li>
          If an API requires a reference to an account asset, refer to the Account instance by its asset ID, instead of its label.
          You can find the asset ID of an Account instance from the Pipeline's metadata.
          <ol>
            <li>
              Export the Pipeline to view its metadata.
              The <codeph>.slp</codeph> file generated by the export is a JSON-formatted file.
            </li>
            <li>
              In the JSON tree, under <codeph>snap_map</codeph>, go to the branch for the Snap that uses the modified Account.
              <note type="tip">
                Under <codeph>snap_map</codeph>, the keys are the Snap asset IDs.
                Use the Snap's <codeph>class_fqid</codeph> and <codeph>class_id</codeph> to help you find the appropriate Snap.
              </note>
            </li>
            <li>Under the appropriate Snap's branch, the Account's asset ID is the value of <codeph>property_map.account.account_ref.value.ref_id.value</codeph>.
            </li>
          </ol>
        </li>
        <li>You can also access these APIs using the REST Get Snap with a Basic Auth account configured to access SnapLogic.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>

  </conbody>

  <related-links>
    <link scope="external" format="html" href="https://www.snaplogic.com/blog/rest-get-and-the-Snaplogic-public-apis">
      <linktext>Blog: REST GET and the SnapLogic Public APIs for Pipeline Executions</linktext>
    </link>
  </related-links>

</concept>

<!--
Jiras: PLAT-8417
-->
